{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2638
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red29\green38\blue43;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c15294\c19608\c22353;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww28600\viewh16880\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs42 \cf0 TCP/IP (Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol)\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa200\partightenfactor0

\fs34 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa480\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs37\fsmilli18720 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cf2 \cb3 1. Network Access Layer :\cb1 \

\f1\b0\fs34 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cb3 This layer corresponds to the combination of Data Link Layer and Physical Layer of the OSI model. It looks out for hardware addressing and the protocols present in this layer allows for the physical transmission of data.\cb1 \

\f0\b\fs37\fsmilli18720 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cb3 2. Internet Layer :\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa200\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs34 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cf2 \cb3 This layer parallels the functions of OSI\'92s Network layer. It defines the protocols which are responsible for logical transmission of data over the entire network. The main protocols residing at this layer are :\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	1	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
IP :
\f1\b0 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539  stands for Internet Protocol and it is responsible for delivering packets from the source host to the destination host by looking at the IP addresses in the packet headers.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	2	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
ICMP :
\f1\b0 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539  stands for Internet Control Message Protocol. It is encapsulated within IP datagrams and is responsible for providing hosts with information about network problems.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	3	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
ARP :
\f1\b0 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539  stands for Address Resolution Protocol. Its job is to find the hardware address of a host from a known IP address.\
\pard\tx566\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb1 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa480\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs37\fsmilli18720 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cf2 \cb3 3. Host-to-Host Layer :\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa200\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs34 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cf2 \cb3 This layer is analogous to the transport layer of the OSI model. It is responsible for end-to-end communication and error-free delivery of data. It shields the upper-layer applications from the complexities of data. The two main protocols present in this layer are :\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0
\f0\b \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	1	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) :
\f1\b0 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539  It is known to provide reliable and error-free communication between end systems. It performs sequencing and segmentation of data. It also has acknowledgment feature and controls the flow of the data through flow control mechanism.\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0
\f0\b \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	2	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
User Datagram Protocol (UDP) :
\f1\b0 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539  On the other hand does not provide any such features. It is the go-to protocol if your application does not require reliable transport as it is very cost-effective. Unlike TCP, which is connection-oriented protocol, UDP is connectionless.\cb1 \
\pard\tx566\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa480\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs37\fsmilli18720 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cf2 \cb3 4. Application Layer :\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa200\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs34 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cf2 This layer performs the functions of top three layers of the OSI model: Application, Presentation and Session Layer. It is responsible for node-to-node communication and controls user-interface specifications. Some of the protocols present in this layer are: HTTP, HTTPS, FTP, TFTP, Telnet, SSH, SMTP, SNMP, NTP, DNS, DHCP, NFS, X Window, LPD. Protocols other than those present in the linked article are :\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0
\f0\b \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	1	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
HTTP and HTTPS \'96
\f1\b0 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539  HTTP stands for Hypertext transfer protocol. It is used by the World Wide Web to manage communications between web browsers and servers. HTTPS stands for HTTP-Secure. It is a combination of HTTP with SSL(Secure Socket Layer). It is efficient in cases where the browser need to fill out forms, sign in, authenticate and carry out bank transactions.\cb1 \
\ls3\ilvl0
\f0\b \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	2	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
SSH \'96
\f1\b0 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539  SSH stands for Secure Shell. It is a terminal emulations software similar to Telnet. The reason SSH is more preferred is because of its ability to maintain the encrypted connection. It sets up a secure session over a TCP/IP connection.\cb1 \
\ls3\ilvl0
\f0\b \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	3	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
NTP \'96
\f1\b0 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539  NTP stands for Network Time Protocol. It is used to synchronize the clocks on our computer to one standard time source. It is very useful in situations like bank transactions. Assume the following situation without the presence of NTP. Suppose you carry out a transaction, where your computer reads the time at 2:30 PM while the server records it at 2:28 PM. The server can crash very badly if it\'92s out of sync.}